Add postprocessing documentation for TACS solutions (#389)
smdogroup/tacs: docs/source/troubleshooting.rst

Troubleshooting Guide
====================

This guide helps you resolve common issues when using TACS. If you don't find your issue here, check the `GitHub Issues <https://github.com/smdogroup/tacs/issues>`_ for community support.

Installation Issues
-------------------

**ImportError: No module named 'tacs'**

*Cause*: TACS is not installed or not in the Python path.

*Solutions*:

- Ensure conda environment is activated: ``conda activate tacs``
- Reinstall TACS: ``mamba install -c conda-forge -c smdogroup tacs``

> - For source installation, ensure Python interface is built: ``pip install -e .[all]``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For source installation, ensure Python interface is built: ``make interface``
```

**ImportError: libtacs.so not found**

*Cause*: TACS C++ library is not in the library path.

*Solutions*:

.. code-block:: bash

   # Add TACS lib directory to LD_LIBRARY_PATH
   export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/path/to/tacs/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
   
   # Or add to your .bashrc for permanent fix
   echo 'export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/path/to/tacs/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH' >> ~/.bashrc

**MPI compilation errors**

*Cause*: MPI compiler not found or misconfigured.

*Solutions*:

- Ensure MPI is installed: ``which mpicc``
- Check MPI compiler in Makefile.in: ``CXX = mpicxx``
- For Intel MPI: ``CXX = icpc -lmpi``

Analysis Issues
---------------

**Analysis fails to converge**

*Cause*: Poor conditioning, incorrect boundary conditions, or excessive loads.

*Solutions*:

- Check boundary conditions are properly applied
- Verify loads are reasonable for the structure
- Ensure material properties are correct
- Try reducing load magnitude

> - Check for rigid body modes

Reviewer: This advice is pretty generic. Is it really useful?

Author: I actually, do think its useful to remin d users to check bcs when their solve fails to converge. I'm always suprised by how many people will set up and try to run models without ever sanity checking them.

**Element callback errors**

*Cause*: Mismatch between BDF element types and callback function.

*Solutions*:

- Verify element types in BDF file match callback function
- Add error handling for unexpected element types:

  .. code-block:: python

     for descript in elemDescripts:
         if descript == 'CQUAD4':
             elem = elements.Quad4Shell(transform, con)
         else:
             raise ValueError(f"Unexpected element type: {descript}")

**Memory errors with large models**

*Cause*: Insufficient memory for analysis or postprocessing.

*Solutions*:

> - Consider using more powerful hardware

Reviewer: Again, is the advice "use more powerful hardware if you run out of memory" really useful? It would be much more useful to explain what output you'll see if you ran out of memory and if there are any options you can set in TACS to reduce memory usage

Postprocessing Issues
--------------------

**f5tovtk/f5totec not found**

*Cause*: Postprocessing utilities not installed or not in PATH.

*Solutions*:

.. code-block:: bash

   # Add to PATH
   export PATH=/path/to/tacs/extern/f5tovtk:$PATH
   export PATH=/path/to/tacs/extern/f5totec:$PATH
   
   # Or use full path
   /path/to/tacs/extern/f5tovtk/f5tovtk solution.f5

**Conversion fails with large files**

*Cause*: Insufficient disk space or memory.

*Solutions*:

- Use essential output flags only
- Convert files individually

Performance Issues
------------------

**Slow analysis performance**

*Cause*: Suboptimal settings or hardware limitations.

*Solutions*:

- Use appropriate number of MPI processes
- Enable optimized BLAS/LAPACK (Intel MKL)
- Use SuiteSparse for better sparse matrix performance

> - Check system resources: ``htop``

Reviewer: These bullet points are not particularly useful unless they explain how to do these things, or link to somewhere that does. For example, how do I know what an "appropriate number of MPI processes" is? How do I enable TACS to use MKL? What does it mean to "Use SuiteSparse for better sparse matrix performance" and how do I do it? What should I be checking `htop` for?

Platform-Specific Issues
------------------------

**Windows/WSL Issues**

*Cause*: Path or permission issues in WSL.

*Solutions*:

- Use forward slashes in paths
- Ensure proper file permissions
- Use WSL2 for better performance
- Consider Docker alternative

**macOS Issues**

*Cause*: Library path or compiler issues.

*Solutions*:

- Use conda installation for easier setup
- Ensure Xcode command line tools installed
- Check library paths: ``otool -L libtacs.so``

**HPC System Issues**

*Cause*: Module conflicts or resource limits.

*Solutions*:

- Use system-provided modules when available
- Check job resource limits
- Use appropriate compiler flags

> - Contact system administrators

Reviewer: As above, these solutions are all pretty vague

Debugging Tips
--------------

**Check TACS Version**

.. code-block:: python

   import tacs
   print("TACS version:", tacs.__version__)

**Verify Installation**

.. code-block:: python

   import tacs
   from tacs import functions, constitutive, elements, pyTACS
   print("All modules imported successfully")

Getting Help
------------

**Community Resources:**

- `GitHub Issues <https://github.com/smdogroup/tacs/issues>`_: Report bugs and request features

> - `TACS Documentation <https://smdogroup.github.io/tacs/>`_: Comprehensive documentation

Reviewer: Do we need to link to the documentation in a page that's already in the documentation?

Author: Agreed, let's remove.
